We had a patient that came in. She didn't recognize me,
but she said, "I know you're from Dart." And I said,
"Oh, oh yeah? How do you know that?" And she goes,
"Because you don't talk to me like I'm
mentally challenged. You talk to me like I'm a person."
And that really struck me. We really take a lot of our time in
our day to build rapport with not only our patients, but our colleagues.
And we... We model. We model. We model that ourselves. I think that's
a huge one, is how we talk, that our colleagues pick up on.
Even using saying, how would that be if that was your family member?
When we can work that into a conversation, I think that's a way
that people can accept that. So I would say most of our patients
have had previous negative experiences in health care prior to coming to
hospital. And people bring that with them when they come in for care
next. And they expect to be treated poorly and labeled a lot of
the time. We always start with a substance use assessment. And then from
there, we talk to patients about their goals and related to their substance
use and provide support as people wish around that.
And help manage withdrawal while patients are in emergency and in hospital.
And that's really important, because it allows patients to stay to complete
their treatment for the medical condition that brought them in. Another
important thing that we do is we talk with patients about
harm reduction and safer use strategies, as well as provide sterile supplies
and take home naloxone and fentanyl test strips. So some health care workers
may be uncomfortable or lack knowledge in how to help people that
use substances. And as the Dart team, we're there to support and educate.
And we try to really keep an open, safe space for nurses and
doctors to come up to us. I had one experience recently with a patient.
What he really needed, I discovered through listening and holding space
for that discussion, was to be heard, to have someone listen to his
concerns and acknowledge how difficult that would be to have a lack of
power in a health care setting. When people come into the ER,
it may be the worst day of their lives.
And some of the people that do come in, they have...
Their social determinants of health aren't acknowledged. And
I think our takeaway is to just always be kind
and to really meet people where they're at and to listen
and to provide a safe place for people to come and get their
health care needs met.